Anthony Danh
April 20, 2016

Tizen Open Source 

The world of open source communities is a growing trend and being improved every single day especially if it's backed by technology giants such as Linux Foundation and the Apache foundation. Using the Linux Foundation website I chose to focus and explore Tizen and open and flexible built from the ground up. Tizen’s focuses on the needs of all stakeholders of the mobile and connected device ecosystem including device manufacturers, application developers, and independent software vendors. Tizen works as a community of developers and is open to everybody who is interested in joining the movement, this practice is protected under open source governance. Tizen offers multiple profiles that serve different industries such as television, automobile technology, and mobile, even though there are different areas of different industries it is all built under the same infrastructure called Tizen Common.

Tizen being under open source governance means open collaboration from anybody, it is ultimately a part of the Linux Foundation and governed by a Technical Steering Group that makes all the decision for the projects in regards to development, delivery, and lastly forming teams to help support the project. The open source aspect of the company insures that development is a collaboration effort and can not be taken over by a single individual, avoiding pitfalls. The people that serve on the board are appointed from different major companies such as Samsung, LG, and Intel this gives Tizen a wide range of people from different backgrounds helping steer the community in the right direction. The process to join is straightforward, submit an application to the board of governors with the necessary legal documents, fees (if there are any), and valid forms of identification. After the paperwork is reviewed the individual is granted access to work and collaborate with the community. The most important document every member must sign would have to be the Intellectual Property Policy (IPR) which states that members are allowed to use any code, framework, or patterns but only to the benefit of Tizen and the members. Any use of this intelligence for self gain or leaking information will be punishable by law. People interested can get involved in many ways blogs, webinars, and becoming a member and actively try to help find solutions and innovate.

The open source community is a ever growing world and there is almost every area of industries that have adopted this framework. Tizen itself is heavily invested in trying to better the mobile phone industry. This focus allows people that are interested in this industry break out and help make user interface better, build better applications, and to fill in gaps in today’s smart phone development. Tizen is backed by some of the biggest names in the industry that are involved in the mobile market and will continue to become bigger as the smartphone world involves. Striving to break new boundaries Tizen will compete to sooner or later release a smartphone under the Tizen brand, but for now innovation and helping optimizing the mobile industry is the main goal.
